Ukraine has a long history. Different episodes from the history of Ukraine expressed its wish to live independently
. For a long time Ukraine had been a part of Poland, Lithuania, Russia, Austria. Till 1991 it had been a part of 
the Soviet Union. Since then Ukraine has been an independent state. In my opinion one of the greatest events in 
the history of our country was May 9.1945, which entered the history of mankind as the Great Victory Day over the 
fascist Germany. During the Great Patriotic War people mobilized all the forces for the struggle against the enemy.
 The country lived with the appeal: «Everything for the Victory!» The front was supported by the partisan movement.
 In 1941 the enemy gained control of Kiev. The fascists destroyed its buildings and monuments. The main street 
Kreshchatic lay in ruins. But Ukrainian people began the war of resistance and did not give in. At the beginning 
of November 1943 the enemy was driven out from the Ukrainian capital. The turning point in the war was the battle 
near Stalingrad in winter 1942—1943. Then victorious battles on the Dnieper, in Belorus’, Moldova and in Ukraine 
followed. The Great Patriotic War against the fascist Germany ended in Berlin on May 9, 1945.

To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman. I have seldom heard him mention her under any other name. In his eyes 
she eclipses and predominates the whole of her sex. It was not that he felt any emotion akin to love for Irene 
Adler. All emotions, and that one particularly, were abhorrent to his cold, precise but admirably balanced mind. 
He was, I take it, the most perfect reasoning and observing machine that the world has seen, but as a lover he 
would have placed himself in a false position. He never spoke of the softer passions, save with a gibe and a 
sneer. They were admirable things for the observer--excellent for drawing the veil from men's motives and 
actions. But for the trained reasoner to admit such intrusions into his own delicate and finely adjusted 
temperament was to introduce a distracting factor which might throw a doubt upon all his mental results. 
Grit in a sensitive instrument, or a crack in one of his own high-power lenses, would not be more disturbing 
than a strong emotion in a nature such as his. And yet there was but one woman to him, and that woman was the 
late Irene Adler, of dubious and questionable memory.

I had seen little of Holmes lately. My marriage had drifted us away from each other. My own complete happiness, 
and the home-centred interests which rise up around the man who first finds himself master of his own establishment
, were sufficient to absorb all my attention, while Holmes, who loathed every form of society with his whole 
Bohemian soul, remained in our lodgings in Baker Street, buried among his old books, and alternating from week 
to week between cocaine and ambition, the drowsiness of the drug, and the fierce energy of his own keen nature. 
He was still, as ever, deeply attracted by the study of crime, and occupied his immense faculties and 
extraordinary powers of observation in following out those clues, and clearing up those mysteries which had been 
abandoned as hopeless by the official police. From time to time I heard some vague account of his doings: of his 
summons to Odessa in the case of the Trepoff murder, of his clearing up of the singular tragedy of the Atkinson 
brothers at Trincomalee, and finally of the mission which he had accomplished so delicately and successfully for 
the reigning family of Holland. Beyond these signs of his activity, however, which I merely shared with all the 
readers of the daily press, I knew little of my former friend and companion.

One night--it was on the twentieth of March, 1888--I was returning from a journey to a patient (for I had now 
returned to civil practice), when my way led me through Baker Street. As I passed the well-remembered door, which 
must always be associated in my mind with my wooing, and with the dark incidents of the Study in Scarlet, I was 
seized with a keen desire to see Holmes again, and to know how he was employing his extraordinary powers. His 
rooms were brilliantly lit, and, even as I looked up, I saw his tall, spare figure pass twice in a dark silhouette 
against the blind. He was pacing the room swiftly, eagerly, with his head sunk upon his chest and his hands 
clasped behind him. To me, who knew his every mood and habit, his attitude and manner told their own story. He 
was at work again. He had risen out of his drug-created dreams and was hot upon the scent of some new problem. 
I rang the bell and was shown up to the chamber which had formerly been in part my own.

His manner was not effusive. It seldom was; but he was glad, I think, to see me. With hardly a word spoken, but 
with a kindly eye, he waved me to an armchair, threw across his case of cigars, and indicated a spirit case and a
 gasogene in the corner. Then he stood before the fire and looked me over in his singular introspective fashion.

https://norvig.com/big.txt


Рене Декарт (1596-1650). Разработчик рационализма. Воспитанник иезуитского коледжа, дающего серьезное образование.
 Был офицером французской армии. Родоначальник науки, философии и математики Нового времени. Работы: «Правило для 
руководства ума», «Трактат о свете», «Описание человеческого тела», «Рассуждения о методах». Выделил понятие 
рефлекса (нервы, мозг, мышцы).

Декарт предложил способ мышления, который приняла вся Европа – рационализм. Если у эмпиризма начало познания – 
опыт, то Декарт понимал, что это не так. Декарт считал, что начало познания – ум, но его сначала нужно развить, 
научить всему, в том числе математике (той, которая была у древних греков).

Человек (его ум, интеллект) располагает двумя способами познания:

1. Интуиция – ум и только он усматривает некое простое знание. Это прирожденные истины, но они не заданы 
физическими родителями (от них только тело). Эти знания – от Бога. Например: природа телесна, детерминирована, 
состоит в движении тел, движение неуничтожимо. Интуиция дает аксиомы. Два критерия аксиомы: ясность и очевидность.

2.      Дедукция - знание об одной вещи через знание другой вещи, выводное знание – обоснование теорем в науке. 
Дедукция осуществляется средствами математики, так как она предполагает количественную определенность. Под 
математикой Декарт понимал, кроме арифметики и геометрии, астрономию, музыку, механику. То есть под математикой 
понимаются те науки, в которых есть количественные соотношения, и совершенно все равно, в чем отыскивается эта 
мера (числа, фигуры, звуки, звезды).

Три орудия познания:

1.      Чувства – контакт с настоящим. Интеллект нужен для интерпретации чувств.

2.      Память - контакт с прошлым.

3.      Воображение – проектирование будущего.

Возникают сомнения в том, что дают чувства, в знаниях, полученных от других. Доказательство возможности 
достоверного знания: я сомневаюсь в достоверности своего знания, но я не сомневаюсь в том, что я сомневаюсь, что 
существует моё сомнение, моя мысль Þ существую я сам Þ существует мир вокруг меня. “Cogito ergo sum”. Способность
 к мышлению задана сверхприродой человека – Богом.

Кроме мышления у человека есть способность воли. Воля часто забегает вперед мышления и ошибается. Ошибки и 
заблуждения объясняются не кознями дьявола, а тем, что человек сначала действует, а потом думает.

Метод научного познания Декарта называется аналитическим или рационалистическим. Этот дедуктивный метод требует 
ясности и непротиворечивости операций самого мышления (что обеспечивается математикой), расчленения объекта 
мышления на простейшие элементарные части и сначала изучения их в отдельности, а затем движения мысли от простого 
к сложному. Критерий истинности – в ясности и очевидности знания.